---
title: "A Little Friend I Met Along the Way"
date: 2023-12-30
tags: ["Story", "Morality"]
---
I have made it a habit, especially after particularly frustrating days at work, to take special notice of little kids and dogs. I find both of these categories of creature to be captivating. Along my twenty minute walk to Penn Station the stress of my day is washed away by these friends in passing. I think it is the optimism I have for them, and the joy that they face the world with that improves my mood. Every once in a while I will get to pet one of these dogs, or wave to a baby. While these are fun and light-hearted moments in my day, there was one little person I met this last summer that has weighed heavy on my heart.

I was visiting my uncle with my brother and mom in his back yard one night when we heard cries from the street of some woman who sounded like she was being attacked. By the third cry we all figured we out to check it out. We happened upon a child, mother and father on a patch of grass adjacent to an intersection. The father was standing over the mother holding her child yelling at her to get up and come on, a woman in a car across the street was yelling that she had called the police, and the mother was screaming. My brother told the father that he had better clear off, and our attention was focused on the mother and child. This story is not to detail a domestic dispute, but to talk about the little baby who was remarkably calm for all of the lunacy she found herself surrounded by. While her mother was rambling incoherently about cars being towed, keys to apartments, and restraining orders filed, this little baby occupied herself by smiling at all the new people that she was meeting. 

We all learned the little one's name, and took turns distracting her from her increasingly frantic mother. When her mother's attention turned to something in her pocket book, the little person was handed off to my aunt, to my mother, and then she reached out to me. I held her and she rested her heavy head on my shoulder and took a deep breathe. It very nearly broke me. I felt powerless to help her, so I just offered a moments reprieve from what I can only believe is a chaotic life. After not so long, I returned her to her mother, and my brother walked them both back to their home. I remember this little person's name, and I think about her often. I hope she is doing okay.

The weeks after this I walked to and from work with a heart struck more squarely by the homeless people that I passed. I wondered how many of them would have needed a reprieve when they were little. The whole experience made me feel small and sad. I became painfully aware of my lack of power to change things. I may have felt somewhat lucky for my situation, and the babies that I have known in my family who have had a better draw for parents, but luck was not what I realized. I felt responsible. I am not really sure what to answer this with, but I think it is okay to let a question go unanswered for a while. Maybe you'll have an answer, or maybe I will have an answer in a while. 

