---
title: "Pondering for November: The Nobility in Being a Side Character"
date: 2023-12-30
tags: ["Philosophy", "LiterallyMe", "Masculine"]
---
A classic question for men to ponder is What is the meaning of life?. When I was in 6th grade I found myself pondering just this question in my English class. On my Casio G-Shock, notes could be written down by pain-stakingly scrolling through the list a available characters for each space. On this melencholy day I wrote the following down The meaning of life is to live. It isn't a particularly revolutionary idea, but it is one that has stuck with me the whole time. Something about the feeling I had then, and the particular sadness I felt in that class. Time and time again I attempted to expand upon this little nugget, but I had been unable to find a way to get it to stick to something. Poems, journal entries, and drunken nights yeilded nothing. I think now I have found something that sticks

The meaning of my life has been revealed to me by living, and keeping my mind open. I remember hearing that it should be the goal of a father to make his sons better men then he was. This act alone gives life meaning. The identification of something that exists in you as something that needs to be present in more abundance in the world is a noble goal. This nobility is especially true if it is an act of the will, and is done with intention. Part of the nobility here is derived from the inherent self-sacrifice in wishing to have sons, or grandsons, that are better men than you. The endevour has a dear cost as it is a life's, probably the life's, work. The scope of this goal is generational, and it is the hope that your progeny will be great men that change the world for the better. In this way you become a side character to these unborn heroes.

The aim of my life as a side character is to be a good father. There are plenty more ways, but they all have the element of self-sacrifice. The film Bladerunner 2047 provides a useful template for this theme for side characters. I would advise that you watch the film before reading further as I will discuss the plot in its entirety. Through the course of the story, it is revealed that there is a miracle child that will change the world. The specific implications of this fact are not germain to the discussion here, but sufice to say if he was this child, he would be the  chosen one.

K exists in the first act as a soulless drone that does the bidding of his superior. He has no real purpose, no trancendant meaning. The time he spends outside of work is alone with alcohol and his pornographic companion JOI. This companion is the carrier for the lie in the second act which tells K that he is the chosen one. When she is killed at the end of this act, the lie dies with her. He finds his meaning in being a side character to the chosen one. He accepts his position and responsiblity sets side his individuality to help something greater than himself. This noble act reunites the chosen one with her father, and it kills K. He does not witness this reunion, he dies on the steps outside in the snow having fulfilled his purpose. This message speaks particularly to men. Men should gather at least these two things from this movie: the dramatic representation of Biblical meekness, and the identification and elimination of the things that limit their potiential.

I am a Catholic, and the adjective Meek is used often to describe what a pious person should be. Unfortunately this was never defined properly in my time in the Church. Whether this is a localized failure or one that is indicative of a widespread problem could be the subject of a book. In any case, I heard Dr. Jordan Peterson say that he heard a definition of meekness as heard in Matthew 5:5 to be those who have swords but keep them sheathed. I respect this man, but he has spoken on things that he does not know nearly enough about before, so while I found this definition to be engaging and fitting in a broader sense, I did not take it in completely. A few months ago, I heard a Catholic Priest, presumably an authority, say that good warhorses would be described as meek. These horses were brave and obedient. If you will allow me to continue a religious tangent, it is worth adding the a theme in Pope John Paul II's encyclical Evangelium Vitae. Among many other points, Pope John Paul II makes the point that a man's will must be subservient to God's, and without this heirarchy of wills man can commit great evil. You need not go to mass every Sunday, nor believe in God to understand that men need to be brave and obedient. The question is: what are men supposed to be obedient to? The Church would say they are to be obedient to the will of God, but lets be more broad. Men should be obedient to something that is greater than them, and this is where their trancendant meaning is derived. K did not start off with this, he found it when he was stripped of his illusions.

The object that was limiting K's potenial was JOI, she was a hologram that was made to endulge her owner. She gives K a name Joe, changes the way she is dressed in an instant to his liking, and hires a prostitute to project herself onto so they can have sex. The culmination, climax if you will, of this hobbling is when she convinces K that he is the miracle child. It blinds him and nearly ruins him. Luckily for K she is killed and he is able to see his situation for what it is and act accordingly. After it is revealed to K that he is not the chosen child, he sees an advertisement of JOI and this hologram says You look like a good Joe. Upon realizing that even the pet nickname his computer gave him was not geniune, the fond memory he has of her is also killed. It ought to be self evident to men encountering this JOI character, how literal her depiction is as escapism manifest. This can be porn, but many other addictions. These things must be cut out from your life for you to identify your potential. You do not want to find yourself obedient to porn or alcohol. Its will can subjugate yours as it has to so many others before. 

There are necessarily Main Characters in the world, but they are few and far between. The praise they are shown in classical literature, religion, and other art is earned justly. With this said, the side characters are the ones who help magnify these character's greatness. Furthermore, every main character is also subservient to something transcendant. Men and women who think that they are purely individual and original are caught in a haze of self-gratification, where they think that they are the main characters. The modern denegration of accusing someone of having Main Character Syndrome puts its finger on this phenonmenon. They refuse to shed the things that blind them, in favor of living in fantasy. I would argue that this willful ignorance is facilitated by the Internet constucting hyperreality.

My aim is not to put down the naive, but to call them to open their eyes. Relinquishing the compulsion to be at the center of every one of your decisions does not make you less than what you serve, but it makes your life's work something that exists beyond the time that you are on Earth. A father is made greater by the quality of his sons, and an artist is remembered for their art.

